well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
uh so today we're going to talk about
statistics
and how somebody repeats a statistic
over and over and over again
or something that sounds like a
statistic
people may grow to accept a false
correlation
i'm going to go ahead and tell you now
you got to watch this whole video
by somebody i'm talking about the
president
and by the people who believe it i'm
talking about his base because they tend
to not
fact check or critically think
and the concept that he keeps repeating
that sounds like a statistic
is this whole democrat-run cities thing
when he says that what he's trying to do
his intent
is to establish a causal relationship
between being a democrat-run city so
democratic policies
and high crime that's what he's trying
to do
there's a couple problems with this
first
pretty much all cities are democrat run
because the democratic party
appeals to people who live in cities
republicans tend to appeal to those who
live
in rural areas right you can check this
for yourself by pulling up any electoral
map
looking at the counties the counties
that voted blue
are where major cities are okay
but if this concept was true that
democratic
policies led to high crime it would be
true
of states as well because if you're just
looking at cities of course
it's going to be democrat because almost
all cities are democrat
but states are different and at the very
least
you would expect to find like illinois
because he's always talking about
chicago
you would expect to find illinois in the
top five
at least the top 10 right so what
happens if we look at that
2018 violent crime data
for states top 10
alaska new mexico tennessee
arkansas nevada louisiana
alabama mississippi south carolina
and arizona all but two of these voted
for trump all but three have republican
governors
weird but see that only tells part of
the story
what we'd have to do is find a deviation
have to find something that uh
that is outside of the norm so what we
need to do is look for cities
look at the the top five cities and uh
see if they line up with the states
that'd be a good idea
so there's a company called safewise or
security company
and they put out a product that ranks
the most dangerous cities using the same
doj data set
and they use a methodology of violent
and property crime
okay so number one
anchorage lines up with alaska
number two albuquerque lines up with new
mexico
number three is memphis lines up with
number three tennessee
number four is wichita doesn't line up
with arkansas number five is lubbock
doesn't line up with nevada interesting
thing about wichita and lubbock
they're republican ron they have
republican mayors
so the deviation here appears to show
that republicans actually have higher
crime rates
in states and in cities because they're
the deviation
what about chicago illinois
is ranked 19th right behind south dakota
and uh neighborhood scout which is a
real estate
type thing they use violent crime
because i don't want to just use violent
and property crime because people say
that'll throw it off
so if you just use violent crime which
is what the president tends to focus on
when he's talking about chicago it's
worth noting that chicago is 64th
behind a whole bunch of uh
towns you wouldn't really expect
so what do we learn here
that the problem is actually republicans
right
no no not really
there is absolutely zero
causal link between a
party being in control and crime rates
that's not a thing
he's just made that up i put this
together
by using violent crime rates for the
state
violent and property for the city and
then violent again for chicago
if you're not comparing apples to apples
it doesn't work
so don't cite this this is just an
illustration to prove
that it's garbage this whole
idea is garbage um
crime is related to poverty income
inequality
lack of access to education
stuff like that not having opportunities
that's what it has a causal link
to to to crime not red or blue
that that's not a thing doesn't really
exist
um this is just more
worthless tweeting from the president
there's no basis for it
it's just him attempting to smear
chicago
why he would have an issue with chicago
i don't know
it's almost like maybe somebody he
doesn't like kind of came into politics
from there
and he just won't let it go
because he's a petty petty man
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day